So the other thing we saw
before was that callback.
We don't have a callback
either to the set count.
We do have another way of doing this.
And so we don't have a callback, but we do
have the sort of thing called used effect.
Use effect and
the word effect means something and
we think about it as side effects.
And a functional component is pretty
much other than this state hook,
functional components before you state,
kind of like pure functions,
parse one in, component came out.
If the same props went in,
the same component came out.
Now, there is this aspect of state,
they're no longer pure, right?
But if you want something else to
happen in this function, then,
other than props going in,
the state is in effect, technically,
under the hood, and
a component coming out,
you need to use effect because it says,
okay here's a side effect.
Now anything that is not the return
value is technically a side effect.
We think about side effects
in terms of Ajax requests.
That's a side effect,
yeah, return a component.
Also goes on that request.
That's the side effect.
Console logs are side effects,
is return this value but
also logs itself to the console and so
we need to use use effect in that case.
The other thing that you will see
constantly is that I don't wanna type
reactor use state all the time so
what I am gonna do here is instead of
bringing in component,
I will say use state and use effect.
Great.
And now,
what I can do is I can register in effect.
Now we'll talk about
the pieces as I write it.
So I'm gonna say use effect and
use effect takes a callback.
And this dependencies is depth
question mark, which is an array.
So it is the callback is simply
a function like we saw before.
In this case, I will say document.title
Is the Counter,
count.
All right.
So let's talk about those dependencies and
we'll kind of, we'll touch on it now.
And then we'll like revisit it several
times in different contexts, but
I want kind of introduce the concept now.
If it doesn't pass, if it doesn't hit you
on the first pass we'll see more practical
examples later on as well.
If you do not give it any dependencies,
this is almost never what you want.
If you don't give
it any dependencies,
it will run on every single render.
You're cool, sounds great unless
it sets any amount of state,
which point that will trigger render.
Which will trigger the function
which will trigger a render,
which will trigger the function, right.
And then all of a sudden you will learn
very quickly how to force quit Chrome.
Trust me or you'll actually DDoS your
own server like I did last night.
All sorts of fun things.
So that is almost never what you want.
The other option is to
give it an empty array.
Cuz I told you this is a this
is an array of dependencies.
And what this means is, hey,
only run this effect when
something I care about changes.
Right and if you're saying I don't
care about anything when the very
not list of you, but
to it'll only run the very first time.
And this seems like what you want but it's
also again usually not, right, is very
similar to component didmount in this
case but usually an we'll see an example
later with this kind of blows up in our
face like towards the very N one where.
Using react router, and when making
network requests where the same
component is getting different
props is not mounting again, but
it's maybe fetching a different ID.
It won't trigger again cuz
you said only when it mounts,
right which is not what you wanted.
So generally speaking, you probably
always want to have something here
like there's there are cases
like we said before,
there are cases where you truly
only want it when amounts.
But for the most part, right,
like, you probably want anything that
you're using in the list of dependencies.
If you're using create react app,
they install this eastland
plugin called exhaustive depths.
Right?
Which will basically scan your code and
it sees, right here, that I'm using count.
It's like, hey, you're using count in
this effect, so you should listen for
when count changes.
Cuz if I don't, you'll see it's counter 0,
and it's never changing.
Right, because what we want this effect to
do is we want it to run whenever account
changes.
So if we add count in
here 510 15 The other
thing I wanna point out is that it
also works for decrement and reset.
Right before with those class methods
we're putting on each one of those methods
and could we have done a lifecycle
hook for you know, props changing.
Yeah.
But the fact of the matter is we're
saying if count changes run this effect.
Right, there's no extra
life cycle methods,
there's nothing along those lines.
Should this value change,
this is what I want you to do.
Right, which is definitely a kind of
much cleaner way of going about this.